So for this module attached you find again a simple starting Project.
There you have the app just filed with the empty view.
So not too much happening there.
Get a constant folder with a basic color which is set up for you and that's it.
I've written that there is nothing interesting in here it's a very basic application which will now
use to build this application which I just sketched out.
Now of course you can absolutely go ahead and build the basics on your own.
So these three different screens which mean the end need or for different screens one for all the places
one for the place details one for creating a new place and one for that full screen map which we also
want to show you can absolutely do that and build the base skeleton for these screens on your own.
Also set up the basic navigation because these are of course all things we already did multiple times
in this course.
It's all the things I will start with in the next lectures in case you want to follow along there or
compare your solution to mine and there after will dive into D.
The meat of this module will dive into how to add native device capabilities so let's get started with
with the basics they offer.
I'll add a new folder screens with the four screens I want to have and that would be the places list
screen file the place detail screen file the new place screen file and also the map screen where we
can then see this full screen map and I'll populate them with content throughout this module.
But these are the four basic screens which I'll need.
I'll also add a navigation folder so that we can setup navigation in there and here I'll set up my places
as navigator J as file now in the starting Project I provided react navigation and all its dependencies
are already installed.
So if you're using that you don't need to manually install it.
Otherwise if you're using your own starting project make sure you install react navigation with npm
install req navigation and also make sure you installed these extra dependencies here to make sure that
react navigation works with expo.
So with that installed now of course we can setup navigation here in the places Navigator and Ford ad
in here all import from react navigation
and what I'll import is of course the stack navigator creation function.
So create stack navigator and also create app container which we also need to do because we'll need
to do both create a stack navigator and setup the app container thereafter.
Now we also need to import the screens you want to work with and that would be the places list screen
which I'll import from the screens folder and there it's to place this list screen we'll all need to
place detailed screen of course place detailed screen which is important from screens place detailed
screen and also obviously the average screens.
So we got the new place screen from screens new place screen at last but not least we also need to import
our map screen here from the screens folder and then that would be the map screen.
Now we can set up our stack navigator here and I'll store it is places navigator in a constant.
And as you all learned we're now mapping identifiers to our screens.
So we got maybe the places identifier mapped to the places list screen we got the place detail identifier
mapped to the place detailed screen.
We also got the new place identifier map to the new place screen and last but not least maybe map mapped
to map screen with that weekends it up some default navigation options here so I'll pass in a second
argument and of course setting this up is totally optional but I'll add details NAF options to every
screen therefore and I wanted to find my header style in here and make sure did there we're using a
background color depending on whether we're running on Android or not.
Hence I'll import this platform API thing from react native and I will also need my color so I'll also
import colors from Constance collars that's also required because with Dad we can now check whether
to platform operating system is Android and if it is we can make sure that the background color of the
header is our primary color.
Otherwise I'll set no color I want to use the default transparent look which I was uses and here also
set up a header tint color for the text on there again checking for the platform because if de platform
is Android since we have a a solid background I'll set the Tim color to white for ISIS I'll do the opposite
there I'll set it to my primary color now that is it here I have no custom fonts in this project of
course you could add some if you want to with this setup we can export our app container which we therefore
need to create with create our container and pass in the places navigator here now that's navigation
setup.
Of course in the app us file we can now use it.
So here we should import the places Navigator from the navigation folder places navigator.
We don't need to view import here anymore therefore we can just return places navigator since I'm not
loading any custom fund cycles that don't need to do this app loading stuff.
We did an early out or in other modules here I can just return this right from the start.
Now in these screens here in the places list screen all import react from react.
I'll import couple of things from.
React Native.
Probably a view a text and a style sheet and then we can see if we need something else later from Rick
native.
And then set off to set up the constant here places list screen as a normal react component which receives
props in which the end returns some content.
Here I'll just return of you with a text of places list screen.
So just some dummy content for now and all they have to style she'd set up here with style she'd create
and ultimately export the places list screen.
And this will be the base skeleton we can use for every view.
So I will drop it into every view and just adjust this name here.
So here we have to place detailed screen which I want to use and then copy it all in the new place screen
and replace this name here in all three places.
And last but not least all the drop this into the map screen to have that here as well.
And then we'll of course add the real content for all this module.
So that's the screens created.
If we now save that and you run does with NPM start or with Expo start and you run it on your favorite
emulator or emulators Wednesday's finished building we should see the places list screen in the end
like this.
Now of course we're not having a header title here so let's make sure we we do set one all on Android
by going to the places list screen and in there we can add places list screen navigation options and
set us to a static object here where we can add a header title of all places or something like that.
And with that of course once this reloads we see that title here on the places list screen.
So that's the basic screen setup which will need for it is module here with that before we dive any
deeper into you the content of the our screens.
Let's actually make sure that we have a plus button here in the header as well which takes us to the
new place screen because deaths stand where we can get started with tapping into native otherwise functionalities
end with adding places.
Now of course you know how to add a button to the header of your navigator all you need to do is install
and you package with npm install dash dash safe and that's the react navigation header Dash Buttons
package which we use a couple of times wrote this course and I will use it in exactly the same way I
used it in the rest of the course.
So I'll create a components folder in which I can set up my own header button component to have that
reconfigured reusable button component and in that component I import header button from this react
delegation header buttons package we just installed import ionic ins from Expo Wexler icons.
A package which you might want to install in case you are getting errors here with npm install dash
to save and also import the colors constant from the constants folder and they are the colors file and
then here we have a regular component custom header button which receives props which return some J
as X and here a one to return the the header button which we're importing but now we'll just configure
it to our requirements.
First of all by forwarding all props to it and then we can set the icon component to ionic and so that
this is used.
Set the icon size here maybe to 20 free because I think that worked quite well thus far and set the
color to you.
And now I'll need one other import I'll need to import platform from react whoops from react native
because now I want to check the platform here.
And if the platform is Android we'll have a solid background of then I want to use white as I can color
opera wise I use my primary colour.
Now with that the only thing that's left to do is to export does custom header button here and now we
can start using it in the places list screen in there.
Although as before I import Q Ever packages from react navigation header buttons to observe things from
this package and that would be my header buttons and item both needs to be imported and in addition
we can also import our own custom header button now from the components folder and there from this header
button file which we just worked in but with that imported we can change our navigation options here
to be dynamic where we have this function that gives us the NAV data and which then eventually returns
does configuration object because this will then allow us to also bind the button to some function which
we receive why I wrote parents because here I want to add header right to add my head or buttons and
of course does now all the pattern we did many many times wrote this course we added he had her buttons
like this and have to item in there on the header buttons component we can set the header button component
and point our custom header button component here and on the item we now set a title like at place and
we set out I can name here which depends on the platform.
So therefore I will actually import this platform API here from react native and we can check if platform
operating system is Android if that's the case then I want to set this to MDA add our wise to IOW add
which adds add a plus button for the specific platform.
So following the specific look of that platform we also need to add the on press function and there
if we tap on this I simply want to navigate with the navigate method here and that's why we need to
have to stand Nemec function here so that we get access to NAV data and then navigation navigate to
new place and new place here of course is my identifier in the places navigator of this new place screen.
So with that we have a wealth going to that screen and hence if we saved us we should be able to do
that.
Obviously I'm getting an error because in my header button component since I have a react component
in there importing react from react doesn't sound like the worst idea is let's quickly fix that here
and you had her button component but now with that as this reloads we have this plus button and we can
go to the new places screen to the new place screen also here on Android of course.
Now on that new place screen we can therefore also add navigation options to set a title new place screen
navigation options set it to some static object for the moment because we right now don't need this
to be a function we don't need access to the NAV data we just need to set the header title to add lace
and with that if we save it obviously if we go there we see that title in the header.
So this is this basic set here.
Now we can work on that ad place screen to make sure that we well can add a place.